Welcome back.
Gloria's got people.
We're now ready to start polishing the game with feature complete We've got everything we need.
Now let's get rid of some irritating bugs in this video.
I want to get rid of the jump ahead Buck.
What I mean by that jump that book you might have seen already Bill show they were backing gameless
lunch again.
OK.
When bonnin wants to get to the jump had everything's fine.
Look what happens now.
Jump ahead is triggered then go through it.
This is fine.
This is not what's happening.
Well let's look at the code.
When ingame they were Mplayer around as close all these things I don't need.
We have a lot of them are using controlled W to do this APC close all the scraps except for player.
OK.
Nice.
If we look at the full function I'm sure.
Click here to get to what was the actual logic.
If you're on the floor or you're on the ceiling do not fall or jump so you motion.
Why is zero if you're on the floor.
If on the ceiling.
Else motion why is gravity times Delta.
The downside of fat is if I'm on the floor.
My motion why is zero.
Why does that matter.
Because that is going to get triggered every frame and boost is going to get triggered once and both
are setting my motion.
Why to jump speed times boost.
This is going to be an issue in a one specific circumstance which unfortunately is happening quite a
lot here.
I'm sure I mean here's bunny.
Bunny teeth.
OK.
Here's bunny bunny is forming while not on the floor so as long as you're not on floor.
The motion equals zero motion y equals zero.
Bunny.
And as a jump at lest you jump ahead in green.
I know I shouldn't mix green in red.
If you have that green red colourblindness what's it called due to anomaly.
I'm sorry.
Wrong colour choice.
But let's stick with it for now.
What happens if Bunny lands here.
One glance here Bunny goes up.
What happens if Bunny lands here so fast the bunny actually lands through the object and onto the floor.
What's going to happen if Bunny is on floor.
Therefore motion y equal zero is going to get triggered every frame.
The Boost pad is going to trigger.
There's a bunny here.
Send the signal but he's going receive the signal.
I should jump up.
Oh I shouldn't.
I'm on the floor and nothing will happen.
Now there's a couple of solutions we could come up with.
We could do something clever with the ifs.
If you're on the floor and you haven't just received a signal recently but there's an easier way.
Let's limit the full speed to limit the full speed.
Well I'm going to do is use clamp.
So first thing to do set in motion.
Why to a new value my new value is going to be a clone.
What is time do.
It returns a value between a minimum and a maximum.
So if we look at the documentation of clamp here it is.
You can do it either way round but very quickly it's going to go like this motion dot Y.
That's the value returning.
So motion not why is the current motion not why.
Between the minimum and the maximum.
Remember negative.
Why is up so that is going to be my jump speed.
She's not my jumps but if that's my jump speed you can never go faster jumps as can be my jumps speed
times my jumpers so let's do that in brackets.
Jump speed multiplied by jump.
Boost.
No only the max value was the max value.
Actually I'm going to keep it simple.
I'm going to say you can't go far faster down than you would normally go up.
So my maximum value is going to be negative jumps speed.
Why negative because jumps speed is already a negative value so a negative of a negative is a positive
which means that you're positive y is going to be your maximum value.
I gave Bernie shanachie up to sneak past that.
Why the club that was working and it's still working.
And this should work indefinitely until it cloud ruins our day.
Look at that.
My hands off the keyboard and boost pad is working just fine so all I have done is we've made the max
more full speed the same as the jobs so jumping and falling is now a kind of value.
So a nice simple fix in this video.
We've looked at how to use clamp to limit value so I make sure it's between a minimum and a maximum.
We've had to do some slightly complicated things because the way that the y value works and got o is
different to how it works in my head.
But that's okay.
We've got a nice fix start going so great work and I'll see you in the next video.